Okay, so let's get into the hands-on.
So, in this hands-on, we're going to deploy StackSets
across multiple regions to enable AWS Config
within each region.
And the idea is that you are going to be able
to track the resource configuration over time
of all your resources within all regions
within the same account, which is a great use case.
So let's see how we can do this in a hands-on.
We'll have to create IAM roles,
add the trust relationships,
and then we'll deal with StackSets.
Okay, so let's deal with StackSets.
So the first thing you need to do
is to create a StackSet administration role,
and this is going to be a role to be deployed
in your admin account.
And this IAM role is going to be assumed
by a CloudFormation.
So this is the assumed role policy document.
And then the policy itself is saying
that this role has the right to assume roles
named AWS CloudFormation StackSet execution role.
So we're giving the administrator the right
to basically assume roles in the target account
from which you will be able to deploy StackSets.
So to create this role, very easy, we'll use CloudFormation.
We'll upload this template file under a 13 StackSets,
and let's choose the first template right here.
So Next, StackSet admin role.
Next, Next, and Create,
and you need to acknowledge the fact
that this is going to create IAM resources.
And so the outcome of this will be an IAM role.
Now, the second step we have to do
is to create the execution role.
So this CloudFormation templates must be applied
in all the target accounts that you want to use
the StackSet feature in.
Now we are in a single account type of setting,
so we have to deploy this template as well
in the same account.
But imagine that if you had different target accounts
in AWS, then you would deploy these template
in all the target accounts.
This is an initial setup that you cannot avoid
unless you are using AWS organizations.
So, this template has a parameter,
which is the administrator account ID
that we'll have to specify.
This is necessary to allow this role
to be trusting in assuming the parent role, admin role.
So this is going to create an IAM role,
and this is going to have the right name, and the idea's
that we're going to have an assume role policy document
to say who can assume this role,
and we'll have a reference to the administrator account ID,
so fairly easy.
And now let's go ahead and apply this template.
So, in Stacks, I'm going to create a stack
with new resources, upload a template, and choose this one,
the StackSet execution role.
It connects.
So StackSet execution role.
Now for the administrator account ID,
I need to just retrieve my account ID from here.
So I will just copy this and paste it, Next,
Next, and then this is going to create an IAM role.
So I'm going to acknowledge this capability,
create the stack, and we're good to go.
So if we have a look at the resources
created by the first stack, a confirmation stack,
we have this admin role in IAM,
and you can have a look at the permissions,
which are defined right here.
And you can have a look at the trust relationship,
which is going to be assumed by CloudFormation.
And then if we have a look at
the second template right here,
this execution role also has been created.
And you can have a look at everything, so the permissions.
It has administrator access, so you can do everything
on the account.
And in terms of trust relationship,
it allows this local accounts to assume it.
So this is perfect.
We have done the initial setup,
and now we can go ahead and use StackSets.
So on the left-hand side,
there is this menu where we can see Stacks, Stack Details,
Drifts as well, so all the drifts you had from before
can be seen here, and, obviously, well StackSets.
So a StackSet is going to be created.
So first let's have a look.
We're going to enable the AWS config.yaml.
And here we see some interesting parts.
So first of all, the CloudFormation interface
within metadata, so we have parameter grouping
within our template, which is a cool application
to what we saw before.
So I'm going to scroll down and skip that.
Then parameters has a string right here,
which is true or false in terms of allowed values,
include global resources, true or false.
So we can really customize how config work.
Resource types, so we can say all by default,
but we have options as well.
Delivery channel names, so name of the channel,
which is by default generated.
Frequency, which is how often the config service
will deliver the configuration snapshots.
So we have specified some allowed values.
A topic ARN if you want to have notifications
delivered to it, and we can create a new topic out of this.
Notification email, default, none.
And then some conditions.
So a lot of conditions are defined in this template,
which is a good reference to go back to the conditions.
And as we can see, this create subscription right here
is a little bit more complicated.
So we have and, and we reference a produced condition,
create topic and not,
and then we have nested conditions as well.
So, I like it, 'cause this is really showing you
the whole power of conditions right here
in the more advanced way.
We have mapping.
So, based on the frequency map, we map it
to actual values that will be accepted by CloudFormation,
so a really, really good use case
of making it user-friendly here
and mapping to actual CloudFormation values,
so a good use case for mappings.
And now we go into the resources.
So we have a config bucket named S3 bucket,
and the deletion policy is retained.
So whenever we delete our template,
the bucket is going to remain.
Then we have a bucket policy,
which is referencing the bucket.
And then we have the policy document in here,
a good usage of the sub function right here
to create a resource that is going to have
the right AWS partition, so a good use case as well
to use the partition pseudo variables,
as well as the config bucket,
and that's going to be a substituted in here
to have a really good end tightened policy.
And, finally, again, the sub function is being used
for the config bucket delivery to allow you
to put objects on the target bucket, so very handy.
Next we have a config topic, which is a condition.
So is create topic on, yes or not?
So this is a condition with defined before.
And if yes, then create this SNS topic
where we have a topic name, as well as the display name.
Config topic policy, so again, the condition of it
is managed by this create topic condition.
And you can have a look at the policy document itself.
Email notification, so again, the condition of it
is create subscription, and then a new role.
So I'll scroll down.
So we have this config recorder now,
and this is a really interesting one.
So we are using depends on
to depend on the config bucket policy,
so it will be created after this config bucket policy.
And for the properties, it gets really cool.
So, this recording group right now
has a really interesting property,
so this one, resource types, which has an if condition.
So you can use conditions within properties as well.
So if is all supported,
then there is a reference saying, hey,
use the pseudo variable no value.
So this is effectively going to disregard this property.
So this is a really, really good use case
of the pseudo variable no value.
And if this is not our resources supported,
then there's going to be resource types parameter
and just you have a reference to that.
So this is a really, really good powerful
confirmation block right here.
I like this template, because it really shows you
all the things we've seen together so far
and how they come along together.
Same for the delivery channel.
So, again, there's an if here,
and if is generated delivery channel name,
then no value else, please use this delivery channel name.
So that is super, super nice.
Find in map functions, we have a good use case of it.
And then we are good to go.
So, again, if function on the SNS topic.
So we can really show how the CloudFormation templates
can get complicated, can have conditions,
can have if statements.
We've seen the no value.
We've seen a lot.
So, anyways, we will use this template
and deploy it now as part of our StackSet.
So now I'm going to create a StackSet and upload it,
and we're going to upload this enable AWS config.yaml file.
Click on Next.
Here, I'll call this one demo StackSet.
And then for the parameters,
let's just leave everything as is.
So, yes, please support all resource types.
Include global resource types, yes.
I'll keep this as all.
As you can see, the metadata really shows a nice way of us
to configure these parameters, so I like it.
And then everything looks good here.
I'll just click on Next.
And also pretty cool,
we can see that whenever we had an optional parameter,
we specify optional in here,
and this is where the if configs
or the labels of the parameters were being used,
as well as where the conditions came in.
So I'll click on Next.
Then we're going to specify the StackSet options.
So the StackSet option I have is the IAM role,
and I'm going to use the one that we have created,
so the StackSet administration role for the admin role ARN,
as well as the IAM execution role name to execute it
within each and every target stack.
So I'll click on Next.
And then we can deploy stacks in specific accounts.
So we can specify the account number
that we have right here.
So I'll just paste this and remove this,
or we could use it if we're using AWS organizations.
Then we need to specify regions.
So let's specify EU Frankfurt,
and then I will specify EU Ireland.
And that's good.
I have two regions specified already.
Deployment options, so this is where it gets interesting.
So, how many concurrent accounts at max?
So one at a time,
but you can set this to a really, really high number,
and, obviously, the highest number,
the faster the operation.
Fail tolerance, so how many stacks can fail
before making the entire deployment fail,
which is nice if you have a tricky deployment,
and you (indistinct) a very, very large number
of target accounts.
Maybe you want to allow some failures,
as well as the region concurrency.
So do you want to deploy one region at a time or parallel?
And because we wanna speed things up, we'll use parallel.
That means that it will be deployed to Frankfurt and Ireland
at the same time.
Click on Next.
Everything looks good.
And then I will go ahead and say, yes,
this might create IAM resources.
Let's submit this.
And now my StackSet is in details in action.
So there's one operation right now that is running.
So this is a StackSet operation,
and we can look at the stack instances.
So as we can see, we have two stack instances,
so in the target account and the AWS region.
So one is EU central one and one is EU West one.
So the cool thing is that you can go to the info.
It shows you like the status of your StackSet itself
and the operations going on.
We can click on these operations.
We could stop it if we wanted to,
but we don't need to right now.
And so what I'm going to do is then I can go directly
into my stacks.
And as you can see, this success is currently
creating a stack in my region of Frankfurt.
And if I go to my other region, if I go to Ireland,
I had another stack before, which was for Lambda functions.
Don't worry about this one,
but, as you can see, this Stackset, demo Stackset,
also has been created.
So, the config has been deployed through a StackSet
into all my target regions.
So back in Frankfurt, the create is complete.
So if I go back into my StackSet now and I refresh this,
the create of my StackSet has succeeded,
which is quite awesome.
So that's it for the introduction to StackSets.
I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.